Our subconscious mind has the ability to influence your beliefs and attitudes and direct your thoughts, desires and purpose. Dreams originate from our subconscious mind, they can reveal our deepest needs, fears, and desires. This post is about a book written by Dr. Joseph Murphy, a psychologist who talks about his experience and the capabilities of our subconscious mind.

The book is a spiritual self help classic, which teaches you how to use techniques to adapt your subconscious mind in a positive way.


Book Cover.
Treasure house within you:
Before you search the outside world for the answers you’re looking for, look within you first. Many answers to your heart’s desire is within you. The master secret possessed by great men for ages was not their inventions and discoveries, its their ability to control their subconscious mind.

Your subconscious mind is the healer of your body, suggest to your subconscious mind things like “I will wake up at 5 a.m” and your subconscious mind being a faithful servant will obey you. The author describes that the law of a happy life is the law of belief.Believe in yourself and never use negative terms like “I can’t lift it”, “I can’t do it”.

Change your thoughts and change your destiny, believe that “I can do all things through the power of my subconscious mind”

How your own mind works.
Always remember that your conscious mind is the reasoning mind and your subconscious mind through processes independent of your conscious control.Your subconscious mind is like the soil, which accepts any kind of seed, good or bad and enriches it. It does not provide you with whether your decision is good or bad but it responds according to the nature of your thoughts.

You have the power to choose, whether it is health, happiness or wealth. Your conscious mind should act as the “Watchman at the gate” protecting your subconscious mind from negative impressions. Choose happiness and abundance over anything.

Your subconscious cannot take a joke, it brings all these things to pass. So, never say “I will fail; I will lose my job”, watch what you say to yourself. Whatever your conscious mind assumes to be true, your subconscious mind will accept it. Believe in good health, fortune and all the blessings of life.

A ship captain’s job is to look over the sailors’ work and make orders, here your conscious mind is the captain of your body, and the subconscious mind will only do what is absorbed by the conscious mind. Your conscious mind is often referred to as your objective mind since it deals with the objects in the real world. Your objective mind learns through observation, experience and education.

The miracle working power of your subconscious:
Always think of a happy ending or a favorable solution to your problem, what you imagine will be accepted by your subconscious mind and bring it to pass. Treating yourself with your mind is possible but there is more to placebo effect than positive thinking. The placebo effect is when a person’s physical or mental health appears to improve after taking a placebo or “dummy” treatment. One of the most common theories is that the placebo effect is due to a person’s expectations.

Keep your conscious mind busy with expectations of the best, and your subconscious will faithfully reproduce your habitual thinking. All annoyance in life is due to unfulfilled desires. If you dwell in the past, difficulties and negative thinking, your subconscious mind responds accordingly and you’re in your own way to happiness.

Mental healings in ancient times:
“What things soever ye desire, when ye pray believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.” MARK 11:24. The writer tells us to believe and accept as true the fact that our desire has already been accomplished and fulfilled, that it is already completed and that realization will follow as a thing in the future.

Remind yourself often that the power of healing is in your own subconscious mind. Faith is like a seed planted. Plant the idea in your mind, water and fertilize it with expectancy and manifest.

Mental healings in Modern times:
Learn to pray for the health of your loved ones. Calm your mind, and thoughts of health, vitality and perfection operating through the one universal subjective mind will be felt and resurrected in the mind of a loved one.

If you want the power to heal, you can have it through faith, which means a knowledge of the working of your conscious and subconscious mind. It is a foolish act to believe in sickness and something to hurt or to harm you. Believe in perfect health, wealth, peace and a peaceful life.

Practical techniques in mental healings:
There are different techniques and processes for building a bridge or an engine, likewise your mind also has a technique for governing, controlling and directing your life. Understand that methods and techniques in mental healing are primary.

You can build radiant health, success and happiness by the thoughts you think in the hidden studio of your mind. A thankful heart is always close to the riches of the universe. What you expect and feel as true will come to pass, so expect harmony, health, peace and abundance.

A mental picture is worth a thousand words. Your subconscious mind will bring to pass any picture held in the mind backed by faith.

The tendency of subconscious is lifeward:
According to various psychological research, over 90% of your mental life is subconscious. A person who fails to use the marvelous power of their subconscious mind, they deem themselves to live within very narrow limits.

Great artists, musicians and poets tune in with their subconscious powers and become inspired. Mark Twain confided many times that he never worked in his life. All humor and all his great writings were the result of his ability to tap the infinite reservoir of his subconscious mind.

How to get the results you want:
Not all prayers are answered. For prayers to work one must use them with a clear understanding of its scientific basis. The lack of confidence and too much effort is the primary reason for failure of prayers. Do not try to force your subconscious mind to do something for you, no matter how hard you try, you will end up failing.

Working harder does not always lead to better results. Always visualize the end and the state of freedom it gives. You will find your intellect trying to get in the way of trying to find ways to solve your problem. Acknowledge your problem, turn the problem over to the subconscious mind, rest with a sense of deep conviction that it is done, these are the three steps to success in prayer.

How to use the power of your subconscious for wealth:
Some people work a few hours a week and make a fabulous amount of money. Do not believe that the only way to become wealthy is by sweat and hard labor. If you’re having financial hardship, it means you have not convinced your subconscious mind that you will always have plenty and some to spare.

Your affirmation succeeds best when it is specific and when it does not produce a mental conflict or agreement. The dominant idea is always accepted by the subconscious mind.

Your right to be rich:
If you want only money and nothing else matters, you may get it, but at what cost! You must also satisfy the hunger for peace of mind, harmony, love, joy, and perfect health.There is no virtue in poverty. It is an illness like any other mental illness.

If you are seeking guidance regarding investments, or if you are worried about your stocks and bonds, quietly claim, “Infinite intelligence governs and watches over all my financial transactions. Whatever I do shall prosper.” If you do this frequently, with perfect faith and confidence, you will find that you will be guided to make wise investments. You will be protected from loss.

Your subconscious mind as a partner in success:
The true inner meaning of success is to be successful at the enterprise of living. A long period of peace, joy, and happiness on this plane may be termed as success. The real things of life, such as peace, harmony, integrity, security, and happiness are intangible. They come from the deep self of human beings. Meditating on these qualities builds these treasures of heaven in our subconscious

The infinite intelligence of my subconscious mind is all-wise. It reveals to me now the ideal home that meets all my requirements and that I can afford. I am now turning this request to my subconscious mind. I know it responds according to the nature of my request. I release the request with absolute faith and confidence in the same way that a farmer deposits a seed in the ground, trusting implicitly in the laws of growth.

How scientists use subconscious mind:
The infinite intelligence of my subconscious mind is all-wise. It reveals to me now the ideal home that meets all my requirements and that I can afford. I am now turning this request to my subconscious mind. I know it responds according to the nature of my request. I release the request with absolute faith and confidence in the same way that a farmer deposits a seed in the ground, trusting implicitly in the laws of growth.

When you have to make what you think is a difficult decision, or when you fail to see a solution to your problem, begin at once to think constructively about it. If you are fearful and worried, you are not really thinking. True thinking is free from fear.

You delay the answer by thinking that it will take a long time or that it is a major problem. Your subconscious has no problem, it knows only the answer.

Your subconscious and the wonders of sleep:
Throughout the day, your conscious mind gets involved with vexations, strife, and contentions. It needs to periodically withdraw from the sense evidence and commune silently with the inner wisdom of your subconscious mind. By claiming guidance, strength, and greater intelligence. Throughout the day, your conscious mind gets involved with vexations, strife, and contentions. It needs to periodically withdraw from the sense evidence and commune silently with the inner wisdom of your subconscious mind. By claiming guidance, strength, and greater intelligence

Infinite intelligence within me knows all things. The right decision is revealed to me in divine order. I will recognize when it comes.

Your subconscious mind and marital problems:
How To Attract The Ideal Husband

Following is an excellent technique; Sit down at night in your armchair, close your eyes, let go, relax the body, become very quiet, passive, and receptive. Talk to your subconscious mind and say to it, I am now attracting a man into my experience who is honest, sincere, loyal, faithful, peaceful, happy, and prosperous. These qualities that I admire are sinking down into my subconscious mind now. As I dwell upon these characteristics, they become a part of me and are embodied subconsciously.

How To Attract The Ideal Wife

I now attract the right woman who is in complete accord with me. This is a spiritual union because it is divine love functioning through the personality of someone with whom I blend perfectly. I know I can give this woman love, light, peace, and joy. I feel and believe I can make this woman’s life full, complete, and wonderful.

Your subconscious mind and your happiness:
True and lasting happiness will come into your life the day you get a clear realization that you can overcome any weakness-the day you realize that your subconscious can solve your problems, heal your body, and prosper you beyond your fondest dream. When you trust in the Lord (the power and wisdom of your subconscious mind) to lead, guide, govern, and direct all your ways, you will become poised, serene, and relaxed. As you radiate love, peace, and goodwill to all, you are really building a superstructure of happiness for all the days of your life.

Happiness and virtue complement each other. Not only are the best the happiest, but the happiest are usually the best in the art of living life successfully. God is the highest and best in you. Express more of God’s love, light, truth, and beauty, and you will become one of the happiest persons in the world today.

How to stay in spirit forever:
Fatigue or old age does not have an impact on any spiritual quality or power. Patience, kindness, veracity, humility, goodwill, peace, harmony are attributes and qualities that never grow old.

Ralph Waldo Emerson said, “We do not count a man’s years until there is nothing else to count.” Your grey hair is an asset. Don’t walk away from an opportunity while thinking, “I am too old to take this on.”

Get out of your head once and for all that sixty five, seventy five, or eighty five years of age is synonymous with the end for you or somebody else. It can be beginning of a glorious, fruitful, active and most productive life pattern, better than you have ever experienced. Believe this, expect it, and your subconscious will bring it to pass.